>> Brian Holt: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: So mine keeps saying
that numberString isn't defined,
how do I make sure that it is,
and how do I find?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, so
the first thing to do is come in here and
find where it says numberString,
right, okay?
So numberString, we know this numberString
here is not good for some reason, right?
So probably the first thing I would do
here, personally, is I would just say
console.log("numberString ",
>> Brian Holt: Comma numberString).
>> Brian Holt: And then if I come
over here and refresh the page,
you can see here that it's logging
out whatever numberString is, okay?
My guess is right there,
instead of saying 4,
it's probably gonna say undefined, right?
So I'm going to figure out okay, well that
means whatever is calling handleNumber
is not giving it the right information.
So I'm gonna then go find out where
handleNumber is being called, okay?.
So here's handleNumber is being called,
which probably means this value
isn't what I expect it to be, okay?
So that probably means
that this value up here
from buttonClick is probably
not being passed in.
So I'm gonna go figure out where
buttonClick was called, right?
And that's gonna be down here.
So you probably have
something wrong right here.
Cuz this is basically the terminus, right?
You can't really go
much further than this.
So somewhere along that path line
numberString's getting messed up.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: So
that's the general process of
debugging is just like working
backwards until eventually
you hit the problem case.
>> Brian Holt: So I'm showing you
how to do this with console.log.
I use and abuse number console.log.
I'm gonna show you just really quickly
a little bit more advanced technique here.
So let's say I was running
into a problem here.
I might throw in what's called
a debugger statement here.
So I'm gonna put debugger right there,
just like that.
Now, I'm gonna go into here.
>> Brian Holt: And refresh this,
and I'm gonna press 5.
And now it's gonna bring up this
debugger screen here in Firefox,
it's also gonna do the same in Chrome.
Now have any of you written C++ or
any of these other kind of languages?
This should be very familiar to you,
because this is how debugger
is work in other languages.
I can actually see where I am in the code.
So I'm here in the buttonClick
part of my call stack.
Call stack being where I am in
the code currently being executed.
And now my code is paused here.
So I can see here that I have value 5,
which is, remember, what I pushed.
And can I make this a little bit smaller?
Here we go.
I know it's a little bit hard for
you, but what's actually
happened is not super important.
You can see is that it's paused on
the statement of my code right here.
So then I can click these little symbols
right here, it's called Step Over.
And it's just going to advance
my code one piece at a time.
So then I can say, hey,
is this going where I expected to go?
I was like, nope.
Okay, so now I can see here it's
gonna go into handleNumber.
So Step Over says like,
don't go into the function call.
But if I click Step Into,
which is this one right here,
it'll actually take me into handleNumber.
So you can see here now I'm
down in handleNumber, and
I can go through my code piece
by piece by piece like that.
It's a little arduous, but
it is pretty cool here.
Now let's say okay, that's fine.
But I'm now curious about
flushOperation here.
I can click here on line 71, and
I can say Continue to here, or
add break points,
there's a bunch of stuff you can do.
And it's like, okay, continue executing
the code until you hit this line and
then stop again.
>> Brian Holt: Once I'm done messing
around with this, I can click Resume and
it will just keep running the program
until it hits another break point.
So feel free to play around with that.
It's again a little bit more lower level,
but it can be useful.
And then make sure you delete
your debugging statements
when you're done with them.
For me that's typically more
effort than I wanna put into it.
Typically it's enough for me to see the
console logs and where things are going.
But different people have
different preferences.